# DECO2017_A3

Web app prototype documentation

### Context
The following app created is designed to function as a tracking application that's placed within the context of fitness and excercise, where users are able to input their set goals of wanting to be able to run a certain distance, speed and time so that the app will record down their data and put them to the test through implementing a live timer. This will guide and help users track their training information for that day and help them reflect on their performances, motivating them to improve on themselves better.

### Iterations and improvements throughout development
In regards to the development of the web appication, the inital HTML structure was created with a basic structure, utilising appropriate HTML tags to represent different sections, headings, paragraphs and div elements. Whilst creating each element of each section, styling using a separate CSS file allowed me to customise its visual features at the same time, although I'd made the mistake of implementing inline styling within the same lines as the div classes and IDs. During the development, the consideration of including responsive design was disregarded as I wasn't as efficient with the time I was given to compete this project. Flexbox was implemented to create containers to hold the content to attempt responsive design, but I've realised using Bootstrap would've been way easier with its provided layout containers. Continuous testing of HTML and CSS in a web browser ensured for a consistent visual layout with necessary adjustments made to iterate on the design. Javascript functionality was added after most of the HTML and CSS was completed to enhance the interactivity and dynamic behaviour of my web application by creating functions and logic to handle specific events and actions. The use of DOM manipulation was incorporated to interact with HTML elements, dynamically update the content/styles and ensure responses to user interactions. Testing the javascript functionality with dev tools was crucial afterwards as many bugs and errors were encountered. The iterations and refinements were based on different modules of the application. For instance, code refactoring was implemented in order to remove the duplicated css by utilising classes and inline css/javascript being moved to external files to separate the structure, form and function of the app. Another example includes, both variable/id renaming and indentations redone to improve code readability. Code comments were also put in place for an easier potential future expansion/collaboration.  

### Configuration steps to run locally

1. It is crucial for you to install Node.js before being able to run this project
2. Clone repository to computer.
3. Open directory in terminal and run 'npm install express' to download the dependencies (packages).
4. After install is complete, start by running the command: npm run start
5. The terminal should ouput a message indicating that the server is running on port 8888, so open your web browser and type in the url: http://localhost:8888 . The website should pop up afterwards. 

### Recommendations for future development and expansion

This project has a lot of improvements that need to be made in order to be easier to use and further develop to be a high quality web application. First of all, I've realised that the use of frontend framework such as Angular or React are more effective than my current framework as it implements reusable components to give a Single Page Architecture. They will provide a more structured and efficient way to develop this web application as it promotes more code reusability, scalability and maintenance, making it easier to develop, test and debug various parts of the app. The use of boostrap framework could also help improve this app for responsive web design, along with the use of viewport meta tags in HTML. An application like this would be best suited to mobile device dimensions, however, this prototype was developed through a desktop sized viewport. The bootstrap framework would ensure a seamless experience across mobile phone and screen sizes by providing fluid containers that would automatically adjust their width when the screens change. Unfortunately, I've struggled with the implementing the position: relative and margin elements within most of my CSS, realising the mistake of using px rather than percentages (%) to control the layout of elements on the page. This method caused the content to be static as the overall layout would display was visually unappealing and messy once the user zooms in/out or adjust the size of their browser to be smaller. Bootstrap would be a more effective framework as it would include a variety of utility classes that could be applied to the HTML elements to control their visibility, positioning and styling. Input validation should also be implemented clientside for future improvement, with user feedback given if inappropriate input is entered in. This will contribute to better user experience by guiding users to correct their input mistakes, reducing frustraiton and improving the overall usability of the application. Lasty, I'm acknowledging that the implementation of javascript cookies would be useful to let data persist between sessions and refreshes. This was disregarded due to my inability to organise my time properly in completing this project within the given timeframe. 